---
title: "TIL (22/12/2023)"
date: 2023-12-22
categories: TIL
tags:
  - RL
  - Embedded 
---

I was thinking about what I can do next with ESP32 and micro-ROS and so I thought to learn RTOS first as it is also used and then dwelve into microROS.

For learning RTOS(gonna a start with FreeRTOS itself), I came across this [tutorial](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLEBQazB0HUyQ4hAPU1cJED6t3DU0h34bz&si=kcy_3-PGuwPFo41r) which looks good.

Then I learned about Policy Gradient methods to solve MDPs from Deep RL course I'm doing from HF. Really the math is little involved which I have to dwelve step by step. While going across Policy Gradient Theorem derivation, I came across few tricks and assumptions used, for e.g. 

   - Reinforce Trick: $$\frac{\nabla_{\theta}P(\tau)}{P(\tau)} = \nabla_{\theta}\\log(P(\tau))$$

   - State Distribution is independent of parameters($\theta$) of policy (I think this implies that the choice of action from action distribution given by the policy isn't covered by the policy i.e its not a part of policy I guess).

   - Sampling m trajectories from the trajectory($\tau$) distribution

Next I have too do the hands-on and refer more about it.

## RTOS

- We can use RTOS when we have to run many **tasks concurrently** or if it's time demanding, which can't be done in general **Super loop** configurations(I mean the usual setup and loop parts).

- ESP32 uses a modified version of FreeRTOS which supports its SMP (Symmetric MultiProcessing) architecture to schedule tasks by using [both cores](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32/api-reference/system/freertos_idf.html)! (but this tutorials is only for multi-tasking in single core)

### Task Scheduling 

- [**Context Switching**]() : How are tasks are switched from one to another.

- Task pre-emption
