---
title: Learning Baremetal Programming in Cortex M4 (STM32 F4) - 1 
date: 2024-09-17
categories: Embedded, STM32, ARM, Programmming
tags:
  - Embedded
  - STM32
  - ARM
  - Programming
---

I am following this [Baremetal Programming Series (Low Byte Productions
Channel)](https://youtu.be/S92ltJ0C59k), inorder to learn about ARM
microcontrollers, writing drivers (I\'ve a goal to write a driver for a
Serial Communication Protocol maybe CAN or Q-SPI, etc.) and learning
some C constructs as well which I will then emulate in
[Renode](https://renode.io/).

Some notes,

-   `MACROS`{.verbatim} are instructions that asks the C preprocessor to
    do text replacements.

-   Behind the Scenes of `libopencm3`{.verbatim}

    -   The memory mapped address of a pin is calculated in the
        pre-processing stage itself using macros.

-   `SYS_TICK`{.verbatim} is like a Wall Clock.

-   `weak functions`{.verbatim} are functions whose implementation can
    be redefined.

For Renode implementation, I just loaded the ELF of program used in the
episode as like for the [Hello World, Intro to Renode from
Interrupt](https://interrupt.memfault.com/blog/intro-to-renode) and I
did used the same Makefiles and Linker scripts once again. (Those 2
seems to be a huge mess ? Is it ?)

I shouldn\'t be lazy enough to tinker them in future.

Then Looked the state of Pin A5 (External LED) and I could see that the
state toggles. I think I could even log the data or check this working
using Robot Framework.

Next, I need to look at Renode docs to discover more functionalities and
then continue with Episode 3 on PWM and Timers!
