---
title: Weekly Notes 1 (Jan 19 - 26)
date: 2026-01-27
categories: blog, upskill, notes
tags:
  - blog
  - notes
  - upskill
---

**Last Updated 27th Jan 2026**

# Main: The EE Stuff

- Started watching the lectures of NPTEL course *Digital Design with Verilog*, inorder to brush my Digital basics and also to get started with Verilog.

- Had setup Icarus Verilog and GTKwave in my Lap and following [aklsh's Verilog writeup](https://github.com/aklsh/getting-started-with-verilog).
  - Will be doing more!

- @splinedrive in X, who made a RISC-V Linux system on his own from scratch was an inspiration to start this.
  - Also refering the book, "Design Video Game Hardware with Verilog" suggested by him.

- Also was able to go through the Udemy Course on developing STM32 microcontroller based USB HID devices. Have to do soldering to expose the SWO pin of STLinkv2 for debugging(ITM).

# Side Hustle

- It would be nice, If I could convert **blogs into podcasts** as I get a lot of good blog posts everyday especially from lobste.rs and Indieweb and couldn;t read much of them atleast If I could hear, I can get a gist of it.
    - Need to explore, how I can do this and automate it for the feeds I get.
    
- I wanted to go through Emacs gpt.el and calc and give a talk about it in KanchiLUG. I don't know when the time comes to do it. 

- Got to know about Brain Fuck Programming Language, with only 8 commands and which is Turing Complete ! and also How [Urban Muller](https://esolangs.org/wiki/Urban_M%C3%BCller/Tamedia_TX_2017_Transcript) developed it. May be one day, I'll try porting it to ESP32 microcontroller (powerful than Amiga 2000) and develop from there.

- Literally amazed, How this guy developed a 8 bit game in Tamil named [வாடிவாசல்](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n5p30030nUk) for NES console. He has spent so  much efforts developing the UI, writing Assembly and so on.

# Others

- Started using the [Super Productivity](https://super-productivity.com/) Desktop app, which has built-in Time Tracker, Lists, Kanban, Tracks the Idle time you spend on Lap etc. Will write about it later.

- Watched Final Destination 6  movie.
